(blog) Governance change announcement (#1274)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: blog/content/posts/2025-07-31-governance-for-mcp.md

+++
date = '2025-07-31T00:00:00Z'
title = 'Building to Last: A New Governance Model for MCP'
author = 'David Soria Parra (Lead Maintainer)'
tags = ['announcement', 'governance', 'community']
+++

Since its open source release in November of 2024, the Model Context Protocol project has grown faster than we could have ever imagined. That's a wonderful problem to have, but with growth come growing pains. Our existing processes, which worked well for a small team, have started to show their limits.

Today, we're taking a big step to ensure MCP can continue to grow and thrive. We're introducing a formal governance model designed to bring clarity to the development process while preserving the collaborative, open source spirit that has made MCP successful.

## Specification Enhancement Proposals (SEPs)

> One of the first major changes we're introducing is [Specification Enhancement Proposals](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/community/sep-guidelines) (SEPs). This will be the primary mechanism for anyone to propose changes to MCP. SEPs are inspired by other trailblazing projects, like [Python PEPs](https://peps.python.org/) or [Rust RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs). We tried to make the process for suggesting changes to Model Context Protocol as straightforward as possible:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the first major changes we're introducing is [Specification Enhancement Proposals](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/community/sep-guidelines) (SEPs). This will be the primary mechanism for anyone to propose changes to MCP. SEPs are inspired by other projects, like [Python PEPs](https://peps.python.org/) or [Rust RFCs](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs). We aim to make the process for suggesting changes to Model Context Protocol as straightforward as possible:
```

- **Core Maintainers** guide the overall direction of the project and the evolution of the MCP specification.
- **Lead Maintainers** serve as the final decision-makers and ensure the project's long-term health.

> All maintainers form the **MCP steering group**. To ensure a structured and timely review of incoming proposals, our core and lead maintainers will meet bi-weekly to review submitted [SEPs](#specification-enhancement-proposals-seps). Meeting notes and decisions will always be public, such as [the one from core maintainer meeting last week](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/issues/1061).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All maintainers form the **MCP steering group**. To ensure a structured and timely review of incoming proposals, our core and lead maintainers will meet bi-weekly to review submitted [SEPs](#specification-enhancement-proposals-seps). Meeting notes and decisions will always be public. For example the [notes from the core maintainer meeting on July 23rd, 2025](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/issues/1061).
```
